.TH MKFS.HFS+ 8 21-Oct-2025 HFSUTILS
.SH NAME
mkfs.hfs+ \- create an HFS+ filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfs.hfs+
[-f] [-l
.IR label ]
[-s
.IR size ]
.I device
.RI [ partition-no ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfs.hfs+
creates an HFS+ (Hierarchical File System Plus) filesystem on a device or file.
This is the standard Unix filesystem creation utility for HFS+ filesystems,
which is the extended version of HFS with support for larger volumes, longer
filenames, and Unicode.
.PP
The
.I device
argument specifies the block device or file where the filesystem will be
created. The device must already exist and be writable.
.PP
An optional
.I label
can be specified to name the volume. The name must be between 1-255 characters
for HFS+ volumes. By default, the volume will be named
.BR Untitled .
.PP
HFS+ supports much larger volumes than HFS and includes features such as:
.IP \(bu 4
Support for volumes up to 8 exabytes
.IP \(bu 4
Filenames up to 255 Unicode characters
.IP \(bu 4
Case-sensitive filename option
.IP \(bu 4
Improved metadata handling
.IP \(bu 4
Better performance on large volumes
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -f
Force formatting. Required when formatting the entire medium (partition 0)
if it currently contains a partition map.
.TP
.BI "-L, -l" " label"
Specify the volume label. Primary option is -L (Unix standard), but -l
is also accepted for compatibility. Must be 1-255 characters for HFS+.
.TP
.BI -s " size"
Specify the filesystem size in bytes. If not specified, the entire device
or partition will be used. Supports K, M, G suffixes (e.g., 100M, 1G).
.TP
.B --version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B --license
Display license information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
mkfs.hfs+ /dev/sdb1
Create an HFS+ filesystem on the first partition of the second SCSI disk.
.TP
mkfs.hfs+ -l "My HFS+ Volume" /dev/sdb1
Create an HFS+ filesystem with a descriptive label.
.TP
mkfs.hfs+ -s 1073741824 /dev/sdb1
Create a 1GB HFS+ filesystem on the partition.
.TP
mkfs.hfs+ -f /dev/sdb 0
Format the entire disk as HFS+, erasing any existing partition table.
.SH NOTES
HFS+ filesystems can be much larger than HFS filesystems and support
longer filenames with full Unicode support.
.PP
This command creates modern HFS+ filesystems compatible with macOS and
other systems that support HFS+.
.PP
.B LINUX COMPATIBILITY WARNING:
The Linux kernel HFS+ driver (hfsplus.ko) does NOT support journaling.
Volumes created with this tool are non-journaled by default and are
fully compatible with Linux. Do NOT use the -j flag (if implemented)
for volumes intended to be mounted on Linux systems.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The program follows Unix standards for exit codes:
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Any error (use -v for detailed error information).
.SH SEE ALSO
mkfs(8), mkfs.hfs(8), fsck.hfs+(8), hfsutils(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Robert Leslie <rob@mars.org>
.br
Pablo Lezaeta <prflr88@gmail.com>