.TH MKFS.HFS 8 21-Oct-2025 HFSUTILS
.SH NAME
mkfs.hfs \- create an HFS filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfs.hfs
[-f] [-l
.IR label ]
.I device
.RI [ partition-no ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfs.hfs
creates an HFS (Hierarchical File System) filesystem on a device or file.
This is the standard Unix filesystem creation utility for HFS filesystems.
.PP
The
.I device
argument specifies the block device or file where the filesystem will be
created. The device must already exist and be writable.
.PP
An optional
.I label
can be specified to name the volume. The name must be between 1-27 characters
and cannot contain a colon (:). By default, the volume will be named
.BR Untitled .
.PP
If the destination medium is partitioned, one partition must be selected to
receive the filesystem. If there is only one HFS partition on the medium, it
will be selected by default. Otherwise, the desired partition number must be
specified on the command-line.
.PP
Partition number
.B 0
can be specified to format the entire medium as a single filesystem without a
partition map. The
.B -f
option must be specified to force this operation if the medium currently
contains a partition map.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -f
Force formatting. Required when formatting the entire medium (partition 0)
if it currently contains a partition map.
.TP
.BI "-L, -l" " label"
Specify the volume label. Primary option is -L (Unix standard), but -l
is also accepted for compatibility. Must be 1-27 characters and cannot contain colons.
.TP
.B --version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B --license
Display license information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
mkfs.hfs /dev/sdb1
Create an HFS filesystem on the first partition of the second SCSI disk.
.TP
mkfs.hfs -l "My Disk" /dev/sdb1
Create an HFS filesystem with the label "My Disk".
.TP
mkfs.hfs -f /dev/sdb 0
Format the entire disk as HFS, erasing any existing partition table.
.SH NOTES
The smallest volume size which can be formatted is 800K.
.PP
This command does not create or alter partition maps, although it can erase
them when using partition 0 with the -f option.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The program follows Unix standards for exit codes:
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Any error (use -v for detailed error information).
.SH SEE ALSO
mkfs(8), mkfs.hfs+(8), fsck.hfs(8), hfsutils(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Robert Leslie <rob@mars.org>
.br
Pablo Lezaeta <prflr88@gmail.com>