.TH MOUNT.HFS 8 "December 2025" "hfsutils 3.2.6" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
mount.hfs \- mount an HFS filesystem

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mount.hfs
[\fB\-o\fR \fIoptions\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR]
.I device mountpoint
.br
.B mount.hfs
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.br
.B mount.hfs
[\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mount.hfs
mounts an HFS filesystem located on
.I device
at the specified
.I mountpoint.
This utility is typically called by
.BR mount (8)
when the filesystem type is specified as
.BR hfs ,
but can also be used standalone.

.B mount.hfs
validates that the device contains a valid HFS filesystem by checking
the filesystem signature before attempting to mount.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-o " options"
Mount options as a comma-separated list. Common options include:
.BR ro " (read-only),"
.BR rw " (read-write),"
.BR sync " (synchronous I/O),"
.BR async " (asynchronous I/O),"
.BR noexec " (don't allow execution),"
.BR nosuid " (don't honor suid/sgid bits),"
.BR nodev " (don't interpret device files)."

.TP
.B \-r
Mount the filesystem read-only. Equivalent to
.BR "\-o ro" .

.TP
.B \-w
Mount the filesystem read-write. Equivalent to
.BR "\-o rw" .
This is the default.

.TP
.B \-v
Verbose output. Display mount operations and results.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success. The filesystem was mounted successfully.

.TP
.B 1
Incorrect invocation or permissions error. This includes invalid options,
insufficient permissions, or missing arguments.

.TP
.B 32
Mount failure. The device does not contain a valid HFS filesystem, the
mountpoint does not exist, or the kernel does not support HFS filesystems.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/fstab
Filesystem table. Can contain HFS filesystem entries.

.TP
.I /etc/mtab
Mounted filesystems table.

.SH EXAMPLES
Mount an HFS filesystem:
.PP
.RS
.B mount.hfs /dev/sdb1 /mnt/hfs
.RE

Mount read-only:
.PP
.RS
.B mount.hfs \-r /dev/sdb1 /mnt/hfs
.RE

Mount with explicit options:
.PP
.RS
.B mount.hfs \-o ro,sync /dev/sdb1 /mnt/hfs
.RE

.SH NOTES
HFS support requires the
.B hfs
kernel module. If mounting fails with "filesystem type not supported,"
load the kernel module:
.PP
.RS
.B modprobe hfs
.RE

HFS filesystems have a date limit of 2028-02-06 (Y2K28 problem). Files
created after this date may not be represented correctly.

For HFS+ filesystems, use
.BR mount.hfs+ (8)
instead.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mount (8),
.BR mount.hfs+ (8),
.BR mkfs.hfs (8),
.BR fsck.hfs (8),
.BR umount (8),
.BR fstab (5)

.SH AUTHOR
hfsutils project
