.TH MOUNT.HFS+ 8 "December 2025" "hfsutils 3.2.6" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
mount.hfs+ \- mount an HFS+ filesystem

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mount.hfs+
[\fB\-o\fR \fIoptions\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR]
.I device mountpoint
.br
.B mount.hfs+
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.br
.B mount.hfs+
[\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mount.hfs+
mounts an HFS+ (HFS Plus) or HFSX filesystem located on
.I device
at the specified
.I mountpoint.
This utility is typically called by
.BR mount (8)
when the filesystem type is specified as
.BR hfsplus ,
but can also be used standalone.

.B mount.hfs+
validates that the device contains a valid HFS+ or HFSX filesystem by
checking the filesystem signature (0x482B for HFS+ or 0x4858 for HFSX)
before attempting to mount.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-o " options"
Mount options as a comma-separated list. Common options include:
.BR ro " (read-only),"
.BR rw " (read-write),"
.BR sync " (synchronous I/O),"
.BR async " (asynchronous I/O),"
.BR noexec " (don't allow execution),"
.BR nosuid " (don't honor suid/sgid bits),"
.BR nodev " (don't interpret device files)."

.TP
.B \-r
Mount the filesystem read-only. Equivalent to
.BR "\-o ro" .

.TP
.B \-w
Mount the filesystem read-write. Equivalent to
.BR "\-o rw" .
This is the default.

.TP
.B \-v
Verbose output. Display mount operations and results.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success. The filesystem was mounted successfully.

.TP
.B 1
Incorrect invocation or permissions error. This includes invalid options,
insufficient permissions, or missing arguments.

.TP
.B 32
Mount failure. The device does not contain a valid HFS+ filesystem, the
mountpoint does not exist, or the kernel does not support HFS+ filesystems.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/fstab
Filesystem table. Can contain HFS+ filesystem entries.

.TP
.I /etc/mtab
Mounted filesystems table.

.SH EXAMPLES
Mount an HFS+ filesystem:
.PP
.RS
.B mount.hfs+ /dev/sdb1 /mnt/hfsplus
.RE

Mount read-only:
.PP
.RS
.B mount.hfs+ \-r /dev/sdb1 /mnt/hfsplus
.RE

Mount with explicit options:
.PP
.RS
.B mount.hfs+ \-o ro,sync /dev/sdb1 /mnt/hfsplus
.RE

.SH NOTES
HFS+ support requires the
.B hfsplus
kernel module. If mounting fails with "filesystem type not supported,"
load the kernel module:
.PP
.RS
.B modprobe hfsplus
.RE

.SS Journaling Support
HFS+ filesystems may have journaling enabled. The Linux kernel's HFS+
driver does NOT support journaling. When mounting a journaled HFS+ volume:
.IP \(bu 2
The journal will be ignored
.IP \(bu 2
The volume may be mounted read-only automatically
.IP \(bu 2
Data corruption may occur on unclean shutdown

For journaled volumes created with
.BR mkfs.hfs+ " \-j" ,
it is recommended to use the volume on macOS or disable the journal.

.SS Date Limits
HFS+ supports dates from 1904 to 2040. The year 2040 limit (Y2K40) may
cause issues with future dates.

.SS Case Sensitivity
Standard HFS+ is case-insensitive but case-preserving. HFSX supports
case-sensitive filenames.

For HFS (not HFS+) filesystems, use
.BR mount.hfs (8)
instead.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mount (8),
.BR mount.hfs (8),
.BR mkfs.hfs+ (8),
.BR fsck.hfs+ (8),
.BR umount (8),
.BR fstab (5)

.SH AUTHOR
hfsutils project
